https://www.vegrecipesofindia.com/matar-paneer/
3 tablespoons oil or ghee
½ teaspoon cumin seeds
¼ teaspoon turmeric powder (ground turmeric)
½ teaspoon Kashmiri Chilli Powder or ¼ to ½ teaspoon red chilli powder or cayenne pepper or paprika
¼ teaspoon Garam Masala or Punjabi garam masala powder
1 tablespoon heavy cream or 1 tablespoon malai (clotted cream) or 2 tablespoons of light cream, optional
1 cup green peas (matar) – fresh or frozen, 130 grams
1 to 1.25 cups water for stove-top pressure cooker and 1 cup water for Instant Pot
salt as required
½ teaspoon sugar or add as required – optional *check notes
250 to 300 grams Paneer (Indian cottage cheese)
½ teaspoon kasuri methi – crushed, (dry fenugreek leaves)
1 to 2 tablespoons chopped coriander leaves (cilantro)
¾ to 1 cup chopped tomatoes – 120 grams or 3 medium-sized
½ cup chopped onions – 60 grams or 1 medium-sized
1 teaspoon chopped green chilies or serrano peppers or 1 to 2 green chillies
1 teaspoon chopped ginger or 1 inch ginger
1 teaspoon chopped garlic or 3 to 4 medium-sized garlic cloves
2 tablespoons chopped coriander leaves
10 to 12 cashews
4 to 5 black peppercorns
2 cloves
1 inch cinnamon (true cinnamon) or ½ inch cassia cinnamon
1 green cardamom – optional
1 teaspoon coriander seeds
Make the masala paste with tomatoes, spices, herbs and cashews as listed above.
Press the sauté button of your Instant pot and let the display show “hot”. Add oil to the inner steel pot. Crackle the cumin seeds first.
Add the ground masala paste and sauté stirring often until it thickens and looks glossy. You can press the sauté button twice to bring the setting to less, if in case the pot becomes too hot.
Add the turmeric powder, red chilli powder and garam masala powder. Mix and sauté for a minute.
Add the green peas, 1 cup of water, salt and combine thoroughly, deglazing if needed. Press the cancel button.
Seal the lid and position the valve to sealing. Press the pressure cook/manual button and set the time to 3 minutes.
Pressure cook on high pressure. After you hear the beep sound when the cooking is complete, wait for 5 minutes and then do a quick pressure release.
Press the cancel button. Add paneer cubes and mix well. Finally add some coriander leaves and mix again. Serve hot or warm.